Created (and rewrote) single file for how to contribute to the Documentation repo (#342)
Agoric/documentation: CONTRIBUTING.md

Images, diagrams, and similar content-supporting files should go in an `assets` subfolder under the appropriate project folder.
For example, if you have a `process.svg` image file with a diagram for the Zoe Guide's Invitations page, its path should look
like `main/zoe/guide/assets/process.svg` and it would appear via an image link of `./assets/process.svg` in the page 
rendered from `main/zoe/guide/invitations.md`. 

Note that `assets` should store all the auxiliary files for the files in its parent folder. You don't make an `assets` folder
or similar for individual files/pages.

### README files

VuePress converts Markdown files to same named HTML file. `README.md` files are an exception; they're 
renamed `index.html`, since that's how web servers find a website's root file. Navigating 
to `https://agoric.com/documentation/ertp/guide/` displays the VuePress processed `/main/ertp/guide/README.md`.
While it may seem odd, VuePress expects multiple `README.md` files in a repo, one each for most folders in it.

The root README.md file must start with a header. Any of H1, H2, or H3 (`#`, `##`, or `###` in Markdown) will do.

> This is needed to generate search indexes and sidebars.

Author: VuePress tutorial: "The root README.md file must start with a header. It doesn't have to be an H1 (# as shown above) but it should be either H2 (##) or H3 (###) for proper generation of search indexes and sidebars."

> This is needed to generate search indexes and sidebars.

Reviewer: Ok, can we back up a bit? Is there any reason why someone wouldn't use an h1 header on a page in our documentation? I think we should not say from our perspective that they are all fine, when it's very likely that not using an h1 header is the wrong thing.

A subdirectory is invisible to VuePress unless it has a `README.md`. Empty `README.md` files are acceptable.

> 

Author: Also from the VuePress tutorial: "Another property of README.md as mentioned before is that if you want to organize your site using subdirectories, a subdirectory is invisible to VuePress unless it has a README.md in it. Those README.md files can be blank."

> 

Reviewer: I just tested, and it is false. To try it yourself, add a new directory, then add a file in that directory with a name other than `README.md`. Then navigate to the produced html file in your local browser. 
<img width="1189" alt="Screen Shot 2020-10-06 at 6 36 28 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2441069/95277530-dddae880-0802-11eb-838c-963f2ce6ac6c.png">

Lines with no special treatment are converted into standard HTML paragraph tags.

### Sectioning Pages

VuePress automatically builds search functionality and individual page menus from `h1`, `h2`, and `h3` headers (i.e Markdown's `#`, `##`, and `###` commands). 
You must have only **one** `h1` per `.md` file. Be careful not to have too many `h2` and `h3` level headers on one page.

## Writing Links

VuePress turns Markdown links into HTML links. There are some quirks about how you should write Markdown links.

First, our link checker does **not** check `router-link` style links. Please only use Markdown style links.

Next, your Markdown links should be to the `.md` Markdown files in the Doc repo. VuePress processing will change
both the `.md` files and links to them to be `.html`.

Use relative links instead of absolute ones for any links to files or folders in the Documentation repo. Relative links
open in the same browser tab when clicked on, absolute links open a new tab. 

> 

Author: I've written around it. I refer to the main (/...) start as a way around writing complicated relative links, wrapping up with say this type of link also opens in the same browser tab. I never actually call it a relative or absolute link.

> 

Reviewer: Ah, gotcha. We might also want to adopt the language here: https://mor10.com/html-basics-hyperlink-syntax-absolute-relative-and-root-relative/

Use this trick to make writing relative links easier. While it's easy enough to, say, write a relative link to something in
the same folder as the file you're writing (something like `(./assets/my-diagram.svg)` to include an image), it can be
tricky to remember/figure out what the right syntax is for linking to a file two folders up, in a different upper folder, and then
two levels down from there on a different branch of the file structure. 

Instead, `main` is considered the top of the file hierarchy. So you can always get to, say, a Glossary entry 
by just linking to `(/glossary/#allocation)`; its path relative to `main`. Any path starting with just `/` is considered

> to start at `main`.

Reviewer 2: If this means that paths that start with `'/'` are considered to be relative paths, please say so explicitly. My unix-based instincts read paths that start with `'/'` as absolute.

> VuePress turns every header in a Markdown file to a named file location you can link to so clicking take you directly to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
VuePress turns every header in a Markdown file to an HTML anchor  you can link to so clicking take you directly to
```

that file location. At the end of the link, append a `#` to the file name, followed by the header text. The header text

> must be altered to be 1) all lower case. 2) All punctuation and spaces are replaced by hyphens (except there aren't any

Reviewer 2: Please correct this if I'm wrong about "punctuation and spaces" meaning "non-alphanumerics". I don't know what's included in "punctuation". Are multiple consecutive non-alphanumerics turned into a single dash or one-per-character?
```suggestion
must be altered to be 1) all lower case. 2) All non-alphanumerics are replaced by hyphens (except there aren't any
```

Author: That's a good question about multiple consecutive non-alphanumerics. I'll have to do some experimenting.

trailing hyphens at the end)

So, for example, the header `E(zoe).getBrands(instance)` is linked to by `zoe.md#e-zoe-getbrands-instance` (note the last `)` was
not turned into a hyphen) and the header
`Contract and Contract Instance` by `glossary/#contract-and-contract-instance`. Note that no specific file is specified in

> the latter, as it defaults to the `glossary` folder's `README.md` file

Author: Dunno about the link checker, but if you go to the site's Glossary and click on copy link address for one of the entry slugified links, you get https://agoric.com/documentation/glossary/#allocation

> the latter, as it defaults to the `glossary` folder's `README.md` file

Reviewer: Ah, good point. I see in our current documentation we use this and it passed the link checkers, so I think we're good.

in alphabetical order for the convenience of future maintainers.

![](./contributing-assets/spellcheck-results.png)

### Importing and testing code snippets

**tyg todo: Note: There was a lot of this that I found possibly ambiguous. I've tried
to specify a few more things to make it clearer, but you should probably review
this section carefully make sure my interpretations are correct or not**

Code snippets are not short inline code bits like `const x = 2 + 2;`. Or 
code blocks denoted in Markdown by starting with a line consisting of three backquotes with 
`js` appended and ending with a line consisting of three backquotes. 

Rather, code snippets are actual development or test code from the Agoric-SDK repo,
or code held to a similar standard of correctness. They should pass `lint` and run with no
errors. This ensures our documents use real code that works
with the current agoric-sdk version (whatever is on master) and is
not outdated. **tyg todo: I'm not quite seeing this guaranteeing things,
since we're not extracting the code directly from agoric-sdk. It'd seem
if we don't check and manually update the snippets file after each upgrade, we risk

> falling out of sync with the agoric-sdk repo.**

Reviewer 2: you might say it "provides assurance" to use instead of "guarantees", for the reasons you cite.

To import code snippets into the documentation, create a file
under `Agoric/documentation/snippets/`. **tyg todo: It appears there should be only one 

> snippets folder for the whole doc repo?** Put your code in the new file.

Reviewer 2: I think @katelynsills  said one per directory.

Reviewer: There's only one snippets folder, but with multiple subfolders underneath in a similar structure to the main docs structure. This is similar to having one test directory.

> Remember, it must be able to run without errors. 

Reviewer: We can do more than that. AVA is imported, so you can write specific tests as well. For instance if your snippet says:
```
// issuer === quatloosIssuer
```
you can write the test:

```
t.is(issuer, quatloosIssuer);
```

You can make an entire code file, or any part of it, into a snippet (each
of which can be used multiple times in the docs). Just surround the part
you want to be a snippet with `#region` and `#endregion` comments:
```js
// #region regionName
...
// #endregion regionName
```
`regionName` in the above is any name you want to give this snippet.

> If you want the whole file to be a snippet, just put the `#region` / `#endregion`

Reviewer: The whole file will be imported if there's no region mentioned in the import or if the region doesn't exist (dangerous!), so no need to put it at top and bottom - just omit from the import.

pair at the start and end of the file. You can define any number of snippet

> regions in a file, including defining one region inside of another. Just be sure to give

Reviewer: I don't know if you can define a region inside another. I haven't tried it.

Reviewer: Just tried it, it seems to work fine

all the ones in a file different names. **tyg todo: Is this all right?**

To include a defined snippet in a Markdown file, put a
line like `<<< @/snippets/test-intro-zoe.js#install` in it..
Replace the `test-intro-zoe.js` with the filename in the snippets file.
Replace the `install` with the name of the region you want included from
the file. 

To test your snippets files:
1. Write tests using AVA.

> 2. Run the tests with `yarn test`. **tyg todo: (Do all the tests have to be in the snippets directory? And do you run `yarn test` from there?)**

Reviewer: The tests should be in the snippets directory. Actually the snippet files and the test files ended up being the same file because that was the cleanest way to go. The snippet files should all be named `test-original-filename.js` where `original-filename` is the markdown filename, like `amounts` of `ertp/guide/amounts.md`

Then, running `yarn test` anywhere will run the tests.

Author: Not sure if I'm following you, since I've not used or looked at AVA. Does this mean a single file test-original-filename.js both has AVA test(s) and code snippet(s) [the latter denoted by #region and #endregion markers] in it? With the tests specifically testing the code snippet and that snippet only?

Reviewer: Yup, you can take a look at https://github.com/Agoric/documentation/blob/6763ee64d5fc66c80a7e3fb4c7a680c41db3a73e/snippets/ertp/guide/test-amounts.js and the other files on that branch to see how it's organized.

> 3. Lint the files with `yarn lint-fix` **tyg todo: See above re: what directory you run this from**

Reviewer: anywhere, but usually root of the repo

**tyg todo: If they're being tested and linted during the merge to master, is this just how you personally test things during 

> development?**

Reviewer: yup!

### Check Links

> To check internal VuePress links locally, run the shell command `yarn check-links` **tyg todo: From where?**

Reviewer: You can run it from anywhere in the root of the repo folder or below

```js
module.exports = [
  {
    text: 'Getting Started',
    ariaLabel: 'Getting Started Menu',
    link: '/getting-started`
    items: [
      {
        // Submenu item
      },
      {
        // Submenu item
      }
    ]
  },     
  {
    text: 'Learn More',
    ariaLabel: 'Learn More Menu',
    items: [
      {
        // Submenu item
      },      
      {
        // Submenu item
      }
    ]
  },  
]
```
#### Configuring the top menubar submenus

A top menubar item without a submenu, such as Glossary, has no
`items` property and must have a `link` property (otherwise there's
nothing to click, so it's really not a good navigation menu item).
```js
 {
    text: 'Glossary',
    ariaLabel: 'Glossary Menu',
    link: '/glossary/'
  },
```

This is an abridged configuration of the `ERTP` entry and its submenu.
Each submenu item has the same structure and properties as a top menubar item,
except they do not have an `items` property. Note that for links to files, instead of folders, such as
the ERTP Introduction, you leave off the file's suffix. So in that case, the
link value is `'/getting-started/ertp-introduction/'` and not `'/getting-started/ertp-introduction.md'`

> All links must end with a trailing `/`, even if the link is to a file.

Reviewer: I didn't understand this. I think we should be able to link to an .md no matter what. It's just that in some cases the markdown file is README.md

Reviewer: ```
All links must end with a trailing `/`, even if the link is to a file.
```
I don't think this is right

Author: Doesn't seem to be right. Fixed.

Author: I think you're right.

3. Lint the files with `yarn lint-fix` (run from anywhere, but usually from the root of the repo).

Note that the PR will automatically test and lint files. The above is for local testing while you're writing the docs.

### Check Links

To check internal VuePress links locally, run the shell command `yarn check-links` from anywhere in the 
root of the local repo folder or below.

Note this does **not** check either external links or router-links. Output is the text of any 
broken links, and what file and line number they're at.

## Local Install, Build, and Run

1. **Clone**: Clone the Documentation repo to your local machine. We suggest using 
Sourcetree to manage your local and remote copies and the various commits
and pull requests you'll make while debugging. The following steps should all
be run from the directory you cloned the repo into.

2. **Install**: To ensure using the latest agoric-sdk 
version when running code snippets, from a shell, run
```shell
agoric install
```
3. **Build**: To build the site as it will be built for production, run:
```shell
yarn docs:build
```
4. **Run**: To run a local server and see your changes in real time, run:
```shell
yarn docs:dev
```

> Note that site config changes may require stopping and restarting this program.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most edit changes will be reflected immediately in the browser, but 
note that site config changes may require stopping and restarting this program.
```

well as `/main/zoe/api/` and `/main/zoe/guide/`. Projects can have additional subfolders as needed. 

Each folder should have its own `README.md`, which is an effective `index.html` equivalent in terms of rendering when someone navigates to
the folder's URL. See the next section for an explanation of how VuePress uses READMEs. 

Images, diagrams, and similar content-supporting files should go in an `assets` subfolder under the appropriate project folder.
For example, if you have a `process.svg` image file with a diagram for the Zoe Guide's Invitations page, it 
should be stored in `main/zoe/guide/assets/process.svg` and appear in the page via an image link of `./assets/process.svg` 

Note that `assets` should store all the auxiliary files for the files in its parent folder. Don't make an `assets` folder
or similar for individual files/pages.

### README files

VuePress converts Markdown files to an HTML file with the same base name. `README.md` files are an exception; they're 
renamed `index.html`, since that's the default file web servers expect to find in each directory. Navigating 

> 

Reviewer 2: This blank line will turn into a paragraph break, right?

While it's easy enough to, say, write a relative link to something in
the same folder as the file you're writing (something like `(./assets/my-diagram.svg)` to include an image), it can be
difficult to remember/figure out what the right syntax is for relative linking to a file two folders up, in a different upper folder, and then
two levels down from there on a different branch of the file structure. 

Instead, VuePress considers `main` the top of the file hierarchy. So you can always get to, say, a Glossary entry 
by just linking to `(/glossary/#allocation)`; its path starting at `main`. Any path starting with just `/` starts
at `main`. These links also open in the same browser tab. 

VuePress turns every header in a Markdown file to an HTML anchor you can link to, so clicking such a link takes you directly to
that file location (called *slugifying* by WordPress and other blogging platforms). At the end of the link, 
append a `#` to the file name, followed by the header text. The header text
must be altered to be 1) all lower case. 2) All non-alphanumerics, including spaces, are replaced by hyphens (except there aren't any

> trailing hyphens at the end).

Reviewer 2: the preface to the list doesn't apply equally to all elements. Please re-word for parallel construction or drop the numbering.
